[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Many
of us have learned by now
that history is far from what
we've been taught in school.
More so, it appears
that it's some
of our most esteemed
institutions
that have had a hand in
obscuring our distant past
from our awareness,
such as the Smithsonian.
Richard Dewhurst has chronicled
a surprising story of giants,
who he says ruled America
in our ancient past.
Which also puts the notion
of indigenous peoples
into a new light.
He's here to talk to
us about his research
today, and also share what has
been hidden by the Smithsonian
other institutions.
Welcome.
We've been trying to
do this since December,
but snowstorms and other things
have kept you away until now.
I'm so glad you're here.
>>RICHARD DEWHURST: Well,
it's a pleasure to be here.
We finally made it.
>>REGINA: We finally made it.
>>RICHARD: That's it.
>>REGINA: So first
of all, you're
a very tall man yourself.
About oh, 6' 6", which is tall.
That's tall for normal
human standards today.
>>RICHARD: It qualifies me at
the very bottom of the giants.
>>REGINA: At the bottom of the
giants, top of normal humans.
So give us a little
bit of a sketch
as to what intrigued you.
I know your own height
was of interest, but what
intrigued you into studying
this subject so deeply?
>>RICHARD: Well, I
mean, first thing
was when I discovered
I was going to be tall.
I started having a fascination
with giant stories.
And as a journalist
and filmmaker,
documentary filmmaker, I had
a file of unusual stories.
And over the years I would
clip giant references,
and so on and so forth.
And never really thought
that much about it, honestly.
And several years ago I was
looking for a project to do,
and I was going
through the file,
and I said, I'm going to check
out this giant stuff, you know.
And subscribed to several online
newspaper archive services,
and began an in-depth
research on it.
And at first I couldn't
find a lot of the articles.
And then I used the word
search for headline,
and I think the first
one I put in was,
"giant skeletons unearthed"
and I found 30 articles.
And that just, that was like
going down Alice's rabbit hole.
Eventually, I ended up
with over 800 stories.
Legitimate accounts.
Every state in the Union,
all the way down to Florida,
all the way out to Catalina.
And I was astonished.
Not only did I have to rethink
my belief in mythology,
but I also had to
rethink everything
I had been taught in school
about American history.
Because this race of giants are
the same as the Mound Builders.
And the Mound Builders have
been literally forgotten.
And part of the reason the
Mound Builders are forgotten
is they have no official
status with the government.
In order to have
government protection,
you need someone to
step forward and say,
I'm a descendant of this tribe.
Nobody's ever stepped
forward and said,
I'm a descendant of
the Mound Builders.
Now I joked with
some friends of mine
that we should get
Conan O'Brien and Bill
Walton to step forward and say,
I have red hair, I'm a giant.
Let's protect these things.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, of course.
Because that history
is long gone,
and we really will go only
so far back as what we now
consider to be the indigenous
peoples of this country.
Which is really
very modern history,
compared to what
we're talking about.
And as I remember
in reading the book,
there is a certain protection,
as you say, that you have.
The Native Americans in
this country, for example,
have a certain protection
by the government.
>>RICHARD: Well, since the
'90s, they have the NAGPRA law.
And that's the Native American
Graves and Repatriation
Act, which is basically
a reburial policy.
Which is why in the
last 20 years, 30 years,
we've seen nothing
about any skeletons.
Because once anything
is unearthed,
it's immediately assigned
to the local Indian tribe
and reburied.
And the scientists
in the last 20 years
had several run-ins
with the local Indians.
Especially the
Kennewick Man out West,
which was dated 9,000
years old skeleton
with genome x chromosome, which
is Caucasian, an indicator.
Same thing happened
in Illinois, where
they had a huge
display for 50 years.
It was the most popular thing
in the state of Mound Builders
and skeletons in situ.
Local Indians said,
those are ours.
Scientists will come forward
and try and study the stuff.
The Kennewick case was in
the courts for 10 years
before the scientists finally
got their skeletons back
to examine.
>>REGINA: So, interestingly,
the Native American tribes
are actually obscuring
the history too now.
>>RICHARD: They are.
Even though their
own legends say
that there was once a race of
giants, and when you ask them,
did you make this earth work?
No, this was done by
the previous Mound
Builders, and the giants.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
But as you say there's
no one to speak for them.
So, what's interesting, is
because it was a more agrarian
society at that time, most of
these juicy, wonderful articles
come from newspaper clippings
from the 1800s and early 1900s.
But before we get to
any of that and get
to the artifacts themselves,
let's talk about the medium,
so to speak,
the intellectual
medium that existed
in which all of these
discoveries were made.
Because you can't go
there without John Wesley
Powell coming into the picture.
And let's talk about
who he was, and why
he was such a prominent figure
in really even obscuring
information.
>>RICHARD: Well, John Wesley
Harding-- uh, John Wesley
Powell, sorry.
Was one of the most
prominent Western explorers,
and was intimately
involved in the discovery
of Green River and
the Grand Canyon.
And by extension, he was
assumed to know something
about the ethnology of
the local Indian tribes.
So he was appointed in
1879 as the first Director
of Ethnology.
Now Powell had what was
called Powell doctrine.
And that was the
first paper that he
issued on behalf
of the Smithsonian.
Prior to that, the Smithsonian's
first book, in 1848,
was a very open-minded
study of the Mound Builder
culture in Mississippi.
But by 1879, Powell
unequivocally
said we're dealing
with aboriginal savages
with no signs of
advanced culture,
no signs of higher intellect.
He said there's absolutely
no pre-Colombian contact.
We will not accept that.
And any talk of lost tribes
will not even be considered.
Now, interestingly
enough, Powell's father
was a preacher, who lost his
whole congregation to Mormons.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>RICHARD: So, no
lost tribes for him.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no
>>RICHARD: And this dovetailed
with other Smithsonian
policies, primarily evolution.
Now, in the 19th
century, when we
had our modern
scientific institutions,
they prided themselves
on rationality.
So anything to do with religion
or myth was like a curse.
And the whole idea
of evolution is
that we go from
knuckle draggers,
and we're getting
bigger and smarter.
Well, you can't
have a chart where
you've got 12, 10, 8, 7, 6--
>>REGINA: We have a
descending height.
>>RICHARD: It's
called de-evolution.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RICHARD: The
band DEVO actually
was named after that concept.
And so, just you--
>>REGINA: So he was able to
influence the Smithsonian,
and as a result of that,
most of the other journals
of the day, that would
have been considered
the more headier academic
journals of the day,
bought into the mindset.
And it was dovetailing
with Darwinism.
Right?
>>RICHARD: Correct.
Yeah.
It was a perfect storm,
and all of the universities
took their lead from
the Smithsonian.
And the Powell Document's
never been rescinded.
Even though there's people
internally at the Smithsonian
now that are trying to argue
their way out of that box,
and doing some interesting work.
It basically, after Powell,
Doolittle, and Ales Hrdlicka,
who was the man who came up
with the Bering Strait theory.
Now the Bering Strait theory--
>>REGINA: The land bridge.
>>RICHARD: They came, you know,
out of Russia, through Alaska,
down this little corner
of ice-- by the way, which
has been proven to be
totally impossible.
No mention of what they ate,
surrounded by all this ice.
And in the book 1491,
they estimate in there
that Hrdlicka put 30,000
skeletons into storage
without examination
or cataloguing.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>RICHARD: Mhm.
Now, in his case, he
didn't want any kind
of European contact, because
it blew his scientific theory,
which was, again, the official
policy of the Smithsonian.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so, at this time, the
arrogance in thinking was such.
And we have been indoctrinated
into that as well, that when
you see these
pictographs, whether it's
through Egyptian art works,
or American Native art
works about ancient pasts.
Or aboriginal art works
where you have giant beings.
We've taken that
to be metaphorical.
And that is the
stance of academia,
is that this is
all metaphorical.
>>RICHARD: Right.
That there were
basically children
who were trying to create
things bigger than ourselves.
The biblical stories
about Goliath,
or stories of Frost Giants,
stories of the Titans,
all of this was the result
of adolescent thinking.
Again, in line with
the idea of evolution.
We've outgrown that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
We have outgrown that.
However, academia has
not outgrown that.
That's why we're doing
what we're doing today.
>>RICHARD: No, actually,
adolescents are the academics.
And they're holding onto
their little bottle,
and they won't let
anyone else, you know.
And if you say anything, you
know, it's my-- this is mine.
>>REGINA: I mean there's so
much evidence against evolution
as it was drawn up by
Darwin, I think he even
had doubts himself,
as the story goes,
and we know his associate did.
>>RICHARD: We know that
birds were dinosaurs.
Correct?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RICHARD: Birds didn't
grow into dinosaurs.
Dinosaurs became birds.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
I mean, there's
so much evidence,
just on a genetic level
alone, so we won't even
debate any of that.
Let's talk about what happened.
Charles Dolittle Walcott.
Where did he come in, and
what was his influence
on archaeology and such then?
>>RICHARD: He just picked
up the same policies
and reinforced
them and made them
the official policy
of the 20th century.
So it carried over again.
And it's carried over
to the present day.
And they all hold
ranks with each other
and enforce the party line.
>>REGINA: And it also,
there is a giggle factor
that is kept solidly in place.
Again, we were talking
off-camera about the fact,
once you have your
academic institutions,
and your religious, and your
media, religious institutions,
media, and such, that
are all essentially
conspiring to give us a
reflection of humanity that
is very small.
Very limited.
Without texture.
>>RICHARD: They don't
want us thinking big.
>>REGINA: They don't want
us thinking big, exactly.
>>RICHARD: They don't
want us being proud.
You know, they don't
want great anything.
>>REGINA: Right.
And yet, when you start looking
at the evidence of what you've
come across-- I mean,
and I had looked
into some of this many
years ago as well.
Probably about the same
time when you first
started doing this research.
And I remember finding
it so interesting,
these obscure little
articles from Ohio,
and especially in the
Midwest, from the late 1800s.
Where someone would be
digging around in their garden
and stumble across a
massive femur of some kind.
And again, that has been
completely obscured.
>>RICHARD: They were dismissed
as hoaxes, animal bones,
but in the 19th
century, amazing quote
that I used in the beginning of
the book from Abraham Lincoln.
He was making a speech
at Niagara Falls in 1848.
And he said, "The eyes of
that extinct species of giant;
whose bones fill the
mounds of America,
have gazed on Niagara
as ours do now."
So it shows you just how
widespread the knowledge
of the giants was
in the 19th century.
Now the interesting
thing about that
is he gave that
speech, unknowingly,
at the site of a giant city
that was up in that area,
where they found
numerous 9 foot giants.
Then a little south of
there, in Cayuga township,
was what was called the cemetery
of giants, where they found
200 giant skeletons,
7 to 9 feet tall.
A little farther down the state,
they found 150 7 to 9 footers.
Pennsylvania, more.
And all the way out
to Catalina Island.
And Catalina Island is in
the 1920s, this happened.
International news, front
page Sunday supplement
feature articles.
3,781 skeletons dug up
by the Catalina museum.
Dr. Ralph Glidden
headed the digs.
7 to 9 feet tall, 9' 2" king,
end of megalithic era stone age
temple.
And within 10
years, not only was
all of those exhibits shut down,
but all references to the stuff
was scrubbed, totally.
>>REGINA: I mean, I just find
it such an amazing conspiracy.
I mean this is a--
>>RICHARD: And then they
call him a crackpot.
>>REGINA: Yeah, a crackpot.
>>RICHARD: He was the
curator of the museum,
and he headed the
Hay Foundation, which
was officially part
of the Smithsonian.
In the book, I show
that the Smithsonian
has 536 negatives
from those digs.
And we're trying
right now to get
the Smithsonian to come forward
and show what those images are.
It would be very interesting.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
What piqued my curiosity,
about 15 years ago
is I had stumbled across
the story about the cache
of Egyptian artifacts that
were in the Grand Canyon.
And I remember going to
a lecture of a man who--
he was an archaeologist, but
he also did his own digs.
Not only was he
showing the location
of that particular cave,
in which those artifacts--
>>RICHARD: Is that the
conflux of the Little
Colorado and the Colorado River?
>>REGINA: It's on the side
of a very steep drop off.
This is not an easy
place to get into.
So it makes you
wonder first, A, how
did that stuff get in there.
You have to start looking at
other means of transportation
to fly that kind of
cache of a sizable amount
of Egyptian artifacts in there.
And the Smithsonian,
then, the article
made it to the Phoenix Sun.
Back in what, 1910?
>>RICHARD: Huge, yeah.
Huge article.
>>REGINA: Huge.
The Smithsonian comes
in, it's all covered up.
>>RICHARD: We don't know
who these people are,
it's all a hoax.
We don't know who
gave this interview.
>>REGINA: We don't
know who they are,
they've spirited
everything away.
And so, this man had
been in the cave.
He had seen it.
And he said it's very,
very difficult to access.
>>RICHARD: Well, and
the legends in the area
say that the entrance
to the sipapu, which
was where the Indians went
to survive the apocalypse
with the Ant People.
>>REGINA: Ant People.
>>RICHARD: The Ant People.
And everyone thinks
they're talking about ants.
I think they're talking about
the survivors of Atlantis,
A-N-T. And in the
book, also you have
the Sons of Anak, which
is in the book of Numbers.
Where they say we came to
this strange land inhabited
by giants, before whom we
stood like grasshoppers.
And you just find the
myths, over and over again,
reinforcing the same themes
with the same root words,
with the same associations.
By extension, in
Death Valley, they
found a similar underground
temple in 50 connecting caves.
8 to 9 foot giants
dressed in what
they called
sheepskin-looking zoot suits.
>>REGINA: We're
going to get to that.
I just find this so fascinating.
And the same man that was
talking about the cave
in the Grand Canyon
that had stored,
at one time, the
Egyptian artifacts
before the Smithsonian came in
and spirited everything away,
he had also come
across these clay
tubes that were burial tubes.
And this man, you and I
were talking off-camera,
I cannot remember his name.
He agreed to do an
interview with me,
and then he said he's had so
much harassment, he backed out.
>>RICHARD: Now these were
standing burials, correct?
>>REGINA: These were
standing burials,
and these beings were anywhere
between 9 and 15 feet tall.
They had their clothing on,
and I saw the images of them.
They had hair, very red hair.
Bright, orangish-red hair.
And as you're going to
tell us in a little bit,
a lot of these skeletons have
blond, waist length black hair,
red hair, that's
still intact after--
>>RICHARD: Catalina was blond.
Red hair all over the
country, including Florida.
Black hair often.
And again, I'm not saying
that all the population
of the Americas was
Caucasian or giants.
But the main central
burials in the majority
of the major mounds across
America-- and again,
you have to understand,
hundreds of thousands
of mounds in the Americas.
The Smithsonian
themselves had estimated
over 150,000 mounds in
the east coast alone.
People don't think there's
any mounds out West.
Well, out West is
covered with mounds.
There was Lake
Lahontan, which was
at 5,000 feet in California,
Nevada, and Arizona border.
It was big as the Great Lakes.
That's where Spirit Cave,
Lovelock Cave has been found.
It's in association with
the temple complexes
in Death Valley and
the Grand Canyon.
And the finds all the
way through California.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, in ancient lore, and
certainly about Atlantean
times, it's often discussed
that the people were very large
in stature.
And so, if there were these
confluences, historically,
of events that were occurring,
if you were having events that
required having to
leave a given area
and migrate to other
places, certainly it's
not beyond reason
that we could expect
to see these same people,
these same types of beings,
arriving in the Americas.
I don't know why we
think-- because we've
been given such a
virginal history,
except for a few
savages, it's ridiculous.
>>RICHARD: Well,
we've been given
a Judeo-Christian history.
You know, everything
came out of the Mideast.
But magically, these cultures,
Egyptian and Sumerian,
that appeared in the Mideast,
appeared at their highest form
of culture, and
then degenerated.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RICHARD: But
when you ask them,
well how is this possible, they
say, well, they say, history,
you know, I mean,
things like that happen.
Well, no they don't.
>>REGINA: No, they don't.
They don't.
That's devolution.
>>RICHARD: These were
clearly civilization
brought in at a high
level from somewhere else.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
Now, just to get a
perspective here.
We're going to go
to Robert Wadlow.
And I think many people
have probably seen
some of his photos,
if they've ever
looked into the
subject of giants.
But we have a little video--
>>RICHARD: Largest modern man.
>>REGINA: Largest modern man.
So let's take a look at a
little video we have of him,
and then we'll discuss
this a little further.
>>VIDEO: Making ends'
feet is certainly
a big job when it takes
size 39 shoes to fit them.
Two into one do go.
Here's the owner, Robert
Wadlow of Chicago,
who in the ripe old age of
17, stands 8' 4" in his socks.
And incidentally,
seems to be quite
beyond the reach of young women.
Every time young Robert
goes through a doorway,
He scores a duck.
And this is Robert's father,
a mere dwarf of 6 feet.
>>REGINA: And we have a few
other family photos of him,
while we talk about him.
>>RICHARD: Now, he
was 8' 4" in that.
He made it to 8' 11", but
he only lived to be 22.
He suffered from a
pituitary condition.
He had a tumor on
his pituitary gland.
Now the giants that
we found in the mounds
are clearly not suffering from
gigantism, as they call it.
>>REGINA: Right.
And this man, just as a matter
of scale, as we can see here,
he's 8' 4".
We're talking about giants,
the rulers in particular,
who ranged between
9 and 12 feet tall.
Just as a matter of scale.
And I want to
bring up something.
Do you know who Klaus
Dona is by any chance?
>>RICHARD: Oh, yes.
Very well, yes.
>>REGINA: He's a friend
of mine, and I've
gotten to know him
through our work.
>>RICHARD: Amazing stuff.
>>REGINA: Amazing stuff.
And in one of the
interviews I did with him,
I was at his
apartment in Austria,
I believe we were in Austria.
And he handed me the
occipital bone of a person,
and this had gone through
university examination
and so forth, that
they determined
to be between 23
and 25 feet tall.
Now again, Robert is
nine feet tall max,
in what we just saw there.
So, you have to look
at what's going on.
And I want to bring
up something we
talked about briefly
off camera, too.
The pituitary.
So he had a pituitary tumor
that created this gigantism.
Right?
But we know, when you go
into the ancient studies,
the classic ancient
studies, the pituitary's
responsible for our growth.
Our spiritual
evolution, all of it.
>>RICHARD: It's
essential spiritual,
but it's also considered the
most important gland in general
by the ancients.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And so what was going on there?
Is it possible that this
devolution, the tiny stature
we have now, is
really more a process
of having a negatively
impacted pituitary?
>>RICHARD: I agree.
Yeah.
My personal opinion is
that when you take out
diet and nutrition, which
is why they always say,
oh, we're getting
bigger and stuff.
I mean, when you go back into
really ancient culture with
high spiritual practices,
with-- it's even conceivable,
stimulation of the
pituitary gland--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RICHARD: Could have resulted
in some of this growth.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
It's just something
worth thinking about,
because our assumptions
are so backward in what
the human species
is to begin with.
>>RICHARD: And so restricted.
>>REGINA: And so restricted.
OK.
So one of the things that
we were talking about,
is the leaders in these
mounds were usually
between 7 and 9 feet tall.
So he would've been
a normal-- Robert
would have been a
rather average looking
sized fellow from that time.
But also there was a fineness
of features, of strength,
of real broadness.
Their broad shoulders.
These were fully--
it wasn't gigantism,
these were fully intact,
very powerful human beings.
>>RICHARD: Fully
articulated, by all means.
It looks like beautiful
looking people.
The picture of the
Queen, the 8' Queen,
bedecked in her copper finery.
I mean, that's a fine physical
specimen, right there.
>>REGINA: So here you have these
people between-- here she is.
So this is the Queen, who
was-- how tall was she?
8--
>>RICHARD: She was 8 foot.
Her King consort, who was
buried on top of her, was 9' 2".
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about, now all
these little dots you see
are very intricately stranded
pearls.
>>RICHARD: Correct.
Freshwater pearls.
Especially in Ohio.
The finds of the giant mound
burials in Ohio, in some cases,
over a half million
freshwater pearls.
Often the mouths are
stuffed with pearls.
And this is in association
with the copper and mica
jewelry, the crowns.
And again, people say, well,
why do you say they ruled?
Because they're buried in
the middle of the mound,
and they're wearing
a copper crown.
It's a tip off.
>>REGINA: And also,
again, the copper crown.
The crown and any
other jewels that
are associated with
crowns, have directly
to do with the pituitary gland.
They always did, historically.
>>RICHARD: Interesting,
I didn't know that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so, this woman was
buried with the King.
And let's talk about the
position they were buried in.
>>RICHARD: Well, the thing
about the Mound Builder burials
is they're a wide
range of burial types.
In this case, they
were buried in unison
with each other in what might
be called a "cosmic embrace."
Sometimes you have couples
with their knees intertwined,
sitting, facing each other.
In two cases, holding
stela with hieroglyphs.
And then you get a number
of standing burials.
Sometimes surrounded
by standing stones.
And then there's
something called
Sun Circle burials, where
it'll be a group of 8,
10, 12 individuals, all facing
in, and then the King, usually
in a standing position
in the middle.
So, just incredible variety.
And again, when people talk
about hoaxes and stuff,
what I always say, and I
try to include in the book,
was the associated burial
positions, and the associated
grave goods.
Now you might be able to fake
a giant bone here or there.
But we're talking about
detailed grave goods,
high degrees of pottery--
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that.
I mean, some of the
art that has been found
is absolutely-- it's exquisite.
We don't do any
finer art work today.
I mean, almost as though
it's been machined,
because of the evenness
and smoothness of texture.
The fineness of the features.
And again, in association
with these giants,
just explain some of the
pieces that you've come across,
this look.
This-- look at this beautiful.
>>RICHARD: Yeah
that's considered
one of the finest
pieces of pottery
discovered in the Americas.
And you can just see the
almost machine quality to it.
And in association with
the Catalina finds,
there was a 65 pound urn which
they found in the burial site.
And everyone commented that it
seemed to have been machined.
It was of such high quality.
And this doesn't just
apply to pottery.
It goes right across
the board into accounts
of dams, irrigation
systems, the pipes, alone,
that come out of the mounds.
The majority of the
ones in the book
are from West
Virginia, were in 1883.
I found the Smithsonian's
old field report,
which said they
found three giants.
This is very famous.
Came out of Iowa.
A lot of controversy at
the time as to whether it
was an elephant or a mammoth.
The people that were
trying to be conservative
were saying it was an elephant.
Of course, there's no history
of elephants in the Americas
either, so.
But people that
know anatomy seem
to think it's a
mammoth, in which case,
this degree of
accuracy, it would have
had to have been observed
10,000 or 20,000 years ago.
>>REGINA: And this
degree of artistry.
>>RICHARD: The artistry
of the pipes and carvings
was one of the things that
really just blew me away.
Because these things are
being found in association
with the giant burials,
and associate burials
that aren't giants.
But the degree of sophistication
artistry is, across the board,
much higher than what was
associated with later American
Indians.
And if you ask the
American Indians,
again, they say this is
from a prior culture.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
some of the other finery.
Because they had
sophisticated jewelry as well.
Copper seemed to be the
medium that was used the most.
And as you say, the
freshwater pearls,
wherever they found them.
>>RICHARD: And mica.
>>REGINA: And mica.
And mica.
And so there was a lot
of beautiful jewelry
that was associated.
But also, one thing
I found intriguing,
going to the Louvre, and
also the British Museum
on Egyptology, is the games.
The sophisticated board
games and such that existed.
>>RICHARD: And
children's games as well.
>>REGINA: And children's
games that existed.
So those same accoutrements were
found in these American mounds.
What are some of the
other things that
were found, by way of
fabric, for example?
Because you talked
about these zoot suits.
>>RICHARD: Well, there's two
incredible things out West.
One is the finds in the
Death Valley caves, where
they go into detail about
these sheepskin looking
zoot suits that were
apparently tailored
pants, and coats, and buttons.
And in that case, there was
a series of connected temple
rooms that all led to
what they characterized
as almost looking like a museum.
Where they had niches
with the bones of saber
toothed tigers, giant sloths,
mammoths, and dinosaurs.
>>REGINA: Saber toothed tigers.
>>RICHARD: Right.
And dinosaurs.
Now, people say, well
OK, this is ridiculous.
But let me just
make this one point.
The Ica stones in South
America also showed giants.
And there's cave petroglyphs in
Nevada that showed dinosaurs.
Now, I know this seems crazy,
but in the last 10 years,
scientists in Germany and
at North Carolina State both
begin independently cutting open
giant bones, which has never
been done before, because they
were considered too valuable.
And they found soft tissue
within these dinosaur bones
that's been dated to
20,000 to 36,000 BC.
And these papers-- there's
a huge scientific conference
in Singapore where they
presented these findings.
The woman at North
Carolina State
has been under attack for the
last 10 years over all this.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>RICHARD: But I'm just
putting it out there.
The other amazing
thing about fabrics
was found in Spirit
Cave out in Nevada,
which is associated with
Lake Lahonton again.
And they were excavating
bat guano out of there,
and under several
feet they started
to discover what looked
like human remains.
And they had to contact
the University of Nevada,
and archaeologists came
out, took a look at it.
What they found was
three skeletons mummified
and wrapped in very
fine tulle fiber fabric.
With like, Egyptian
thread count.
It was that advanced.
They-- as this was the 1940s,
they looked at the stuff,
they said, well it appears
to be 500, 1,000 years old.
And immediately filed it away.
In the late '90s--
>>REGINA: Just a casual comment.
500,000 years old.
>>RICHARD: No, no.
>>REGINA: Oh, 500 to 1,000?
I thought--
>>RICHARD: To 1,000 years.
So the scientists at the
University of California
read about this in the '90s.
And he went to Nevada, and
found the things in storage,
pulled them out of storage.
And carbon dated
them to 7,500 BC.
Mummification and
advanced weaving.
There's a shot of the
shroud in the book.
Now one would think the
news of a 7,500 year
old mummified anything,
anywhere in the world,
would have been a sensation.
No one knows about it.
>>REGINA: No.
OK.
So, fabric.
So sophisticated fabric
weaving, we know, at least that
far back, right?
>>RICHARD: 7,500 BC.
>>REGINA: 7,500 years at least.
>>RICHARD: And associated
with the copper finds,
I said to myself, where's
all the copper coming from?
Well, it turns out, Northern
Michigan, Keeweenaw Peninsula.
And then by extension into
the lake, there's something
called Isle Royale,
which I found
is a very interesting
name for it, number one.
The royal island.
And that island is literally
made out of copper.
And because of a
volcanic upthrust,
the copper was
exposed to the air,
all the sulfur
impurities burned off.
So it's over 99% pure.
Two professors in
Michigan wrote a book
and estimated that 1.5
billion pounds of copper
were taken out of there over
a period of 10,000 years.
>>REGINA: Well,
besides the jewelry
and such, what else-- what
other remnants have you found,
in terms of what the
copper was used for?
>>RICHARD: Well, they
can't account for it.
They said, well, in the mounds--
>>REGINA: That's
a lot of jewelry.
>>RICHARD: We see
And a lot of independent
researchers up in that area
have reported
petroglyphs of Cretan
looking ships, Egyptian
looking vessels,
all the way to the Vikings.
Now it's very interesting,
the copper trade
fell off in 1500 BC, and
started backup at 900 AD.
In 1500 BC, the Santorini
volcanic explosion in Crete
happened.
Which, among other
things, I think accounts
to the Exodus story,
and completely destroyed
that seagoing culture.
So it makes sense that the
copper trade dropped off.
And then it started up at
900 AD, which is exactly
the time they say the
Vikings showed up.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
You were talking
about pipes earlier.
Were the pipes made of copper?
>>RICHARD: Mostly soapstone
and other substances,
very hard other stones.
>>REGINA: Was it,
were you impressed
more with the precision
with which these were made?
>>RICHARD: Precision, yeah.
And how it was worked.
It's the same story.
You get this high degree
of granite and stuff
like that, that seems
to have been easily
manipulated and worked on.
And science says they
had crude instruments.
They didn't know this,
they didn't know that.
And they do it with the Great
Pyramid, and Great Stones,
Baalbek, and come up with these
ridiculous stories in order
to make people from the extreme
past look like children.
Like ignorant children.
>>REGINA: Well, but
people like you-- yes.
People like you, and Klaus Dona,
and Christopher Dunn, though.
I have such respect for him.
He's done amazing
research in terms
of showing that it was
virtually impossible for some
of those megalithic statues.
>>RICHARD: Laser like precision.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
laser like precision.
Obviously, a lot of
the statuary in Egypt
was machine tooled,
back in its day.
>>RICHARD: Yeah,
there's no question.
I mean he's done photos
where he's taken like,
the face of Ramses,
and shown that, you
can put the right
cheek against the--
>>REGINA: Perfect, flawless.
>>RICHARD: It's perfect, yeah.
He says the only
way that you can
do that is with a
computer program.
>>REGINA: So we're
looking at a society.
And we've started slowly
coming to embrace,
yes, there were in
the Middle East, maybe
some more advanced
civilizations.
But we haven't
gotten to the point,
because your work is really
relatively new and phenomenal,
that the same thing was
going on all over the planet.
>>RICHARD: Right.
Well, I joke at one
point, especially
in light of the finds out West,
which we know are 7,500 BC.
And by the way, also
the Florida bog mummies.
Florida bog mummy story is
another, just mind blower.
They were putting in a
condominium complex near Disney
World, in Titusville, which
is on the Atlantic coast.
And the developers
drained a lake there,
and they discovered under
the peat moss, skeletons.
So they contacted the University
of Florida and Florida State.
They came out, started
digging in there.
And what they discovered
was several hundred
red haired, mummified skeletons,
the hair was still in a knot.
And they had been ritually
buried with stakes.
Couldn't get any
funding for it at all.
>>REGINA: Can you believe that?
>>RICHARD: They had to
raise independent funds,
and the developers,
on their own dime,
put up $60,000 worth
of machines so they
could drain the stuff out.
This took 10, 15 years.
Finally, the University of
Florida in the last couple
years has stepped
forward by a grant
from a private individual,
who allowed them to do it.
Same thing happened on
the West coast of Florida.
They had health spas
over on the West coast.
And in the '50s they
were very popular,
and people would come
down and vacation.
One of the guys was
an ex Navy diver,
and he started scuba diving
and coming up with skeletons.
And then the tourists started
coming up with skeletons,
and he tried to get the
government involved,
no success at all.
In the case of the West coast,
they're actually cenotes.
They thought they were
only 40 feet deep.
And they're shaped
like an hourglass,
and they come back out, and
at the bottom is peat moss.
And underneath the peat
moss, hundreds of red haired
skeletons.
Dated 7,500 BC.
>>REGINA: And the
red haired skeletons
are all over the country.
>>RICHARD: Yep.
So I joked at one point,
because they always say, well,
when did the Europeans
discover America?
And I said, well
maybe you've got it,
like, completely
backwards, you know?
I said, if you go back to 7,500
BC, especially out West, that
was considered the
most lush biodiversity
existing on the planet.
So perhaps we discovered
them, and they
didn't discover us at all.
>>REGINA: There are
so many question marks
that come up when you start
looking into all this.
I really don't even know
where to go with it.
It's just kind of--
it's just data.
At this point, it's just data.
Trying to string it all together
seems almost impossible,
unless you just stick
to a particular locale
and see that there
was a particular very
advanced or sophisticated
culture of the day.
So let's talk about the mounds
themselves a little bit.
And let's talk about
the ways in which
the internal structure
of the mounds were built.
And purpose, and ceremony,
and that sort of thing.
>>RICHARD: Well, there are
several different types
of mounds.
>>REGINA: Here we have one.
>>RICHARD: That's
Monks Mound, which
is in Cahokia, which
is in Saint Louis,
at the confluence of
three major rivers.
And a huge significance
to the site.
They originally estimate
that the city of Cahokia
was 50,000 to 60,000 people.
In the last two years,
the city of Saint Louis
has been doing extensive work
on their sewers and roads.
And they've discovered
that they're
finding Cahokian remains all
over underneath Saint Louis.
They've upped the estimate
to 100,000 to 150,000 people.
Now we have--
>>REGINA: When
were the Cahokian,
what is the age
estimate on that?
>>RICHARD: Well the Cahokian,
again, fell in 1200 to 1500
AD as Mound Builder culture in
general, across the country.
People ask me,
well what happened?
I personally think disease.
I also think that
the Mongol invasion
went not only East, but West,
and came into the Americas.
And probably brought the
Black Plague with it.
And so at Cahokia, the site has
never been properly studied.
The man that was
officially assigned
to do some tentative
digs was also
associated in covering up some
of the extraordinary finds
in Sayre, Pennsylvania.
Including the horned skull.
>>REGINA: Yes, I was
going to get to that next.
>>RICHARD: Which they squashed.
It's the same guy there.
>>REGINA: Now, OK.
Like I said, I don't even know
what to do with all of this.
>>RICHARD: I can't
remember the guy's name,
but the archaeologist that
was involved in this find,
squashed--
>>REGINA: This was
in Pennsylvania.
>>RICHARD: Yeah,
Sayre Pennsylvania.
It was associated with
Phillips Andover Academy.
And again--
>>REGINA: And it's a humanoid?
Is it hard to say?
>>RICHARD: Yeah, I
mean, some people
think it's an ET, some
people think it's, you know,
a devil race.
But there's numerous
accounts of horned giants
and horned mythological figures.
>>REGINA: Well, Michelangelo
honored this himself.
>>RICHARD: Correct.
And Alexander the
Great was also--
>>REGINA: He was said to--
>>RICHARD: Yeah, head of horns.
>>REGINA: Sport horns.
>>RICHARD: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER] I know.
>>REGINA: I mean, but why
did Michelangelo put horns
on Moses?
>>RICHARD: Well, that's
the big question.
>>REGINA: Now, you would
think there would-- people--
>>RICHARD: It should
be a sensation.
>>REGINA: This would
That people would be
flocked around this all day
long, asking the simple question
of why does he have horns?
This is Moses.
>>RICHARD: Occam's razor
would tell you he has horns
because he had horns.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: And sometimes it's
as obvious as that-- I mean,
it's so absurd.
OK.
So far, A, what is the largest
skeleton that's been exhumed?
>>RICHARD: Yeah.
The best account that
I put in the book,
with multiple people,
townspeople, doctors,
scientists, and so forth, was
on the Ohio/Indiana border.
They found an 18 footer there.
With a 9 foot copper
sword and an iron helmet
that, in the article, they
say resembled something
from Nineveh.
That was by far the biggest.
You have a range of
10 to 12 footers.
A lot of them up in
Minnesota, in association
with the copper mines up there.
Which, again, I think
is very interesting.
Because Isle Royale
being the royal island,
you would have
your biggest giants
protecting your
most valuable asset.
So it would make sense.
Ohio, as we talked about
earlier, we've got 9 footers.
Next to the King and
Queen, they found
a circle of mounds that had,
I believe, nine skeletons.
8 to 9 foot.
So that was in association
with the other two.
And then a lesser class,
which is by far the most
common, which are 7 to 9 feet.
>>REGINA: And the
ethnicity is really varied
across the country.
There was one, as I recall,
one leader, 9 foot tall man,
was found with a little
white haired child.
>>RICHARD: Kentucky.
>>REGINA: In Kentucky.
Talk about that a little bit.
And then also about the really
spectacular sounding one
with the waist
length black hair.
He sounded just exquisite.
>>RICHARD: Yeah, he
definitely should
have been in some
heavy metal rock band.
>>REGINA: Yeah. [LAUGHTER]
>>RICHARD: The
Kentucky/Tennessee finds
are amazing.
And the most amazing account
I found was Dr. John Haywood.
And he not only made first
person on site examinations,
but also collected
over 100 years
of what he considered the most
authentic finds in the area.
The finds in Kentucky
and Tennessee
include secret caves,
sacred springs,
standing monolithic
stones, nine foot giants
found with blond
haired children,
and what they called the
Moon-Eyed children, which
I thought was very interesting.
>>REGINA: Yes, the
little teensy ones.
>>RICHARD: Haywood was--
they were excavating
mounds in Tennessee
and Kentucky.
And they kept noticing
small mounds in association.
And finally, they
thought, well let's just
find out what's in these things.
And they dug in, and what
they essentially found
were small coffins.
Three feet long.
And inside them were bones
of pygmies, or midgets,
or leprechauns, whatever
you want to call them.
The Indians called them
the Moon-Eyed children,
or the Moon-Eyed people.
And they said that
the Moon-Eyed people
were associated with giants,
always found in their company.
Only came out at night, and
liked to create mischief.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
It's almost the story, as
you say, of leprechauns.
>>RICHARD: And I thought, well
this is the exact same thing
that they're saying
about leprechauns.
There on the cover is
one of the Moon Children.
Right there, yeah.
So, a lot more to our heritage
and history than we've
been taught.
>>REGINA: OK, so then
that brings us now
to some speculation.
And again, there is
so much in this book.
I just kind of snagged
a little bit of this
and that to inquire about, just
to get some visual imagery.
But let's talk about maybe
an overarching theme.
Throughout history, as we
said in the very beginning,
all of the indigenous
peoples around the world
have talked about giants.
And most of the indigenous
people around the world
have also talked about
their space brothers.
So let's talk about the
UFO and giant connection.
Or not UFO, just off world
cultures, and our connection
with other planetary systems.
>>RICHARD: Well,
mythologically speaking,
the Sumerians are
probably the ones
that we always look
to, because when
they talk about the Anunnaki,
those from heaven to Earth
came.
Now, that gets back into
this A-N, A-N-T root
that I was discussing earlier.
The Anunnaki, in many
accounts, and even in accounts
of Gilgamesh, were
a race of giants
of an advanced
technical culture.
You have the Sons of Anak in the
book of Numbers in the Bible,
Anannaki, Anak,
Atlantis, Ant people.
This root word crops
up over and over again.
So by implication, if we use
the forbidden word Atlantis,
there seems to have been
an advanced culture.
It doesn't necessarily have
to have come from outer space
though.
>>REGINA: It could be
indigenous, you know?
>>RICHARD: Well I often--
we have flying saucers.
OK?
We have airplanes.
If we land an airplane
in an aboriginal culture,
wouldn't we be the ones
from heaven to Earth came?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
You bring an example
of that in the book
forward that I thought
was very interesting.
Yes.
>>RICHARD: So you
know, I say, yes, they
had Vimanas, or flying
machines, or whatever
you want to call them.
>>REGINA: In the
Hindu culture, yeah.
>>RICHARD: I'll reserve whether
they came from outer space,
or they just had
the technology to be
perceived as coming from space.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
So through whatever means, it
appears that advanced culture
had been seeded here
a long time ago.
You're just arguing that
it doesn't necessarily
mean that it was
seeded from elsewhere.
>>RICHARD: Yes.
Because we have so much
evidence, and so many
conflicting stories.
And it's so hard to get
some of this information
across without being accused of
believing in too many out there
things.
So I just say that all
my research indicates
that there was an
advanced civilization that
had technological, scientific--
I think they thought
differently than we did,
and didn't try and make
machines do things.
>>REGINA: I was going to
say, the technological piece
is what's interesting to me.
>>RICHARD: They seem to have
known how to sympathetically
stimulate natural powers
and currents, and in a way
that didn't interfere with the
natural ecological systems.
If you look at the
mounds in America,
there's not a lot of evidence
for defensive structures.
Although there's ritual
burials, in some cases,
of giants in full armor.
And there's one very big
mythological story that
concerns the Lenni
Lenape Indians,
who say they originally
came from out West .
Which would indicate 5,000
BC, when the Lassen Volcano
destroyed all Lake Lahontan,
and that whole culture fell.
Their stories say they came
across the Mississippi,
and they ran into the
Algonquin Indians,
who were also a race of giants.
And a serious, epic
battle started,
that was eventually
joined in by the Menengwe,
and the Lenni Lenape
ended up victorious.
And eventually took
over the Atlantic Coast,
from Long Island in New York
down to around Delaware.
But other than that,
it doesn't seem
to have been a
worldwide culture.
>>REGINA: Although
it's interesting,
because some of the lore
around Atlantis, for example,
and various stages of Atlantis,
was that they certainly
had the abilities,
and had harnessed
these natural
forces, as you say.
Whether it's sound, light,
crystalline energies,
and so forth.
Vibrations, and to be able to
use it with form and thought,
create it into--
>>RICHARD: And
quantum mechanics,
it proves all of that.
>>REGINA: It proves all of that.
And so, we know that existed.
We don't know that,
we're now assuming--
>>RICHARD: We're coming
closer to accepting it.
>>REGINA: Coming
closer to accepting
that that kind of a very
sophisticated culture existed.
But then, at the same time--
>>RICHARD: They degenerated.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Because you also have
the lore that even while
that existed, that
kind of very peaceful,
sophisticated culture.
Very advanced agricultural
techniques, and so forth.
There were air raids
and attacks from above.
From craft from above.
And so that's what
I'm getting into,
this notion of
maybe a confluence
of different off planet
cultures with ours.
And they're certainly--
>>RICHARD: Very conceivable.
>>REGINA: Conceivable, and yes.
>>RICHARD: For instance, out
here, this is Poverty Point,
and this is Northern Louisiana.
And again, it's-- you can see,
it's laid out in a very non
defensive way.
There was a place
called Circleville
in Ohio, that very
much resembled that.
And they estimate
that there could
have been 100,000 people
living here, by the way.
And in Circleville in
Ohio, this is bizarre,
but when they
occupied Circleville,
they built the
town in association
with the existing circles.
Then at some point in
the 1830s, the town
decided that they wanted
to square the circles.
>>REGINA: Yeah, sure,
why not? [LAUGHTER]
>>RICHARD: So [LAUGHTER]
they raised funds,
it was called
"squaring the circle."
And probably had
Masonic implications,
but they started
squaring the whole thing,
then they just gave it up and
plowed the whole thing under.
And stories like
that are voluminous
all over the country.
Dam building.
Another great destroyer
of a lot of this evidence.
In Oklahoma, they
put a dam in there.
In the process, they
found a 100,000 plus city.
People said, well,
gee, it's in Oklahoma.
Well, they've got Cato lake
there and the Cato culture.
The pottery we were looking at
earlier was from Cato culture.
And an aquifer in
Texas, which was also
considered the biggest
freshwater aquifer.
And that's where they found
the city for 100,000 people.
Now they've found evidence
of huge ancient forges
to work with metals.
That was all flooded out.
Out West, they put
another dam out there.
At some point there
was an estimate
of a six mile long city.
The White Sands Missile
Testing Range, before they
took that over.
Association with the
Cliff Dweller culture.
Another 100,000 city.
Niagara Falls, indications
50,000 to 100,000 people.
So our conception of what
was here in the Americas
is-- I mean, we think
everybody lived in teepees.
You know?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>RICHARD: Not true.
>>REGINA: No, not true.
And actually on the
Cliff Dweller subject,
I was going to do a documentary
called The Mystery of the Cliff
Dwellers, a number of years ago.
And I don't want to go into
who and how this happened,
but I came across
some information
from someone who
would be in a position
to have all of the
elevations and such.
And essentially, what
they were saying is
they had hiked that whole
four corners region.
And noticed that there
was a particular elevation
at which all of
this had occurred.
And they essentially
said, there.
Just as kind of solving
the Cliff Dweller,
as a potential answer to
the Cliff Dweller mystery.
Is that-- that had all
been in inland sea.
Everything is marked at
the same level, waterwise.
The Petrified Forest included.
>>RICHARD: Well, Lake
Lahontan was at 5,200 feet.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>RICHARD: So all the finds
out West are above 5,000 feet.
>>REGINA: And they're all
right around 5,200 feet.
Including a lot of this--
>>RICHARD: And that's true
across the board, over three
or four or five
states out there.
And we've been led to believe
the Cliff Dwellers are
contemporaneous with
our modern Indians.
I show in the book,
there's a 1910 report
from the Smithsonian,
itself, who
says they estimate the
site was at least 3,000
to 5,000 years old.
That the stairs are so
weathered by human use
that it would have
taken thousands of years
for that kind of wear.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
So whatever kind of, in this
one man's supposition on this,
is that whatever body of
water was there is gone now.
And so it just leaves us to
think that these people had
reason to build defensively up
on the side of these mountains,
when actually, most likely they
had boats right out in front.
Their little canoes.
And their supplies
came in via water.
>>RICHARD: Well, and another
absurdity of the Smithsonian
was no boats.
Everybody had to walk
over glaciers and stuff.
Curiously, last month,
in associated research,
I just found Smithsonian's
back on Santa Rosa Island,
which is part of
the Channel Islands,
associated with Catalina.
Glidden found 1,500 more
giants on the other islands,
plus the Golden Gate
Museum found stuff.
UCLA supposedly has 200 of these
skeletons at the Fowler Museum.
Anyway, they're on
Santa Rosa Island,
they've gone back out to do
digs on a plateau out there.
Now they haven't said
they found any skeletons,
but what they have said
is that they have now
established human habitation
at at least 10,000 BC.
And unquestionably,
the use of boats.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
So, I mean, this is
a non-linear topic.
This is kind of a
non-linear conversation.
Because we're just trying
to turn over stones and say,
well this is what
they found here,
this is what they found there.
But it certainly is
leading to, if we
can't put a linear context to
the development of civilization
in the Americas because
it was so diverse,
we maybe can put
a larger context
to why it seemed so necessary to
hide that information from us.
And we can finish on that note.
Because this is really
something that is-- in my mind,
it's criminal.
>>RICHARD: Well, they talk
about stories of Atlantis,
or the great stories
of the Titans,
or Poseidon, or biblical high
culture, Sumerian high culture,
dismissively.
Especially beginning
in the 19th century.
Prior to the 19th
century, these ideas
were embraced by
the intelligentsia.
Plato was held in high
regard by Thomas Jefferson,
among other people.
The whole idea of
the Atlantis stories
was not some conspiracy theory.
The idea that high
culture, that human history
has highs and lows,
peaks and valleys.
Somehow, we got
it into our heads,
as we started inventing little
machines and stuff like that.
Nobody's ever done this before.
We're smarter than
everybody else.
So therefore, you
know, anything that
indicates any high degree
of technical sophistication
associated with
ancient history has
been put in the bin of whack
jobs and conspiracy theorists.
And we're starting to
come out of that now.
But I think that's the
underlying theme that's
kept this information from being
really scientifically examined
and accepted as part
of our tradition,
and not part of myth.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now if someone has a little
summertime vacation ahead,
where would you suggest one go?
If they want to go on a giant
tour of America, what would be
say two to three of
the top spots to go,
where you can see some actual
skeletal remains, mounds,
and so forth.
>>RICHARD: I don't know very--
>>REGINA: I know, because this
is spread all over the place.
>>RICHARD: Impossible today
because of the NAGPRA laws.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>RICHARD: Just-- one of the
last places that you could go
was Nevada at the Humboldt,
the sites out there.
The Winnemucca museums
had four giant skeletons
that were on display.
Then the state of
Nevada said, we
don't officially recognize
these, and withdrew them.
Then for a while, they were
showing them in the back room.
We're presently,
right now, trying
to get the Fowler Museum
of the Smithsonian
to open up some
of this evidence.
At the very least, show
the 536 photographs
from Catalina Island.
Now curiously, the museum
there was reincorporated
as the Catalina Island Museum.
Two years ago they
were doing research
in the storage rooms for
an exhibit on World War II,
they discovered Ralph Glidden's
boxes and research material.
This was covered in
the Los Angeles Times.
They go through the
boxes, they say,
this man was not a
crackpot, apparently.
All these stories seem
to have been true.
He was an excellent
archaeologist,
worked very vigorously,
found all this stuff.
No mention of the
3,781 skeletons
that averaged 7 feet tall.
Nobody from UCLA stepped forward
and said we have 200 of these.
Nobody from the Smithsonian
said we have photos of all this.
So--
>>REGINA: So it's time
to put a little pressure
on the Smithsonian.
>>RICHARD: You got it.
>>REGINA: Maybe
that's the next step.
>>RICHARD: That's the next
step if you want to see.
>>REGINA: If you
want to do something,
if you want to see any of it.
Meanwhile, I hear Klaus is
on to some interesting things
right now.
So I'm going to be
catching up with him too.
>>RICHARD: Keep me posted.
>>REGINA: I certainly will.
And thank you so much.
I mean, I was
just-- it just kind
of leaves your hair curled,
to think that here we
have from 7 feet to
18 feet tall, 18 foot
tall human beings, red hair,
black hair, white hair.
Finery.
>>RICHARD: I'll tell you
another thing people can do.
In their neighborhoods,
because mounds
are all over the country.
Keep your eyes opened.
If it looks like an
artificial mound,
it probably is an
artificial mound.
See if you can investigate it.
See if there's a local
history regarding it.
Get actively involved;
look in your backyard.
>>REGINA: OK.
Look in your backyard, put some
pressure on the Smithsonian.
Thank you so much.
I mean, you've
done an amazing job
of archiving all of
this information.
Those articles and
the photographs.
Thank you for your work.
>>RICHARD: Very kind, thank you.
>>REGINA: Again,
the book is titled,
The Ancient Giants
Who Ruled America,
which can be found online
at major booksellers.
And on this topic, you also
heard me talk about Klaus Dona.
You might want to check
into my interviews with him
on the CMN archives
here on Gaiam TV.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]